---
layout: post
title: "PBKS Auction Review"
author: ritam
categories: [Cricket]
image: assets/images/pbks.jpg
---

This mega auction has been extremely tight and exciting. The so called big boys of the league could not make the best team. Other franchises availed themselves of the mega auction. Punjab Kings made an excellent squad. Critics are rating the PBKS team to be the best team on pen and paper.

The Team:
Retained players:
Mayank Agarwal
Arshdeep Singh

Players Bought from Auction:
Shikhar Dhawan ( Rs 8.25 crore)
Kagiso Rabada ( Rs 9.25 crore)
Jonny Bairstow (Rs 6.75 crore)
Rahul Chahar ( Rs 5.25 crore)
Harpreet Brar ( Rs 3.8 crore)
Shahrukh Khan (Rs 9 crore)
Prabhsimran Singh ( Rs 60 lakh)
Jitesh Sharma (Rs 20 lakh)
Ishan Porel ( Rs 3.8 crore)
Liam Livingstone ( Rs 11.5 crore)
Odeon Smith (Rs 6 crore)
Sandeep Sharma ( Rs 90 lakh)
Raj Angad Bawa ( Rs 2 crore)
Rishi Dhawan (Rs 55 Lakh)
Prerak Mankad ( 20 Lakh )
Vaibhav Arora (Rs 2 Crore)
Writtick Chatterjee (Rs 20 Lakh)
Baltej Dhanda (Rs 20 Lakh)
Ansh Patel (Rs 20 Lakh)
Nathan Ellis (Rs 75 Lakh)
Atharva Taide (Rs 20 Lakh)
Bhanuka Rajapaksa (Rs 50 Lakh)
Benny Howell (Rs 40 Lakh)

The Top Order:
In the opening lineup PBKS has Dhawan and Mayank. Both of them are proven openers in the league. The batting record of Dhawan over the years speaks for himself. He has scored 5784 runs in 192 matches with an average of 34.84. Dhawan is in sound form now. In the last few years he has scored over 500-600 runs consistently. Dhawan plays both pace and spin well.
On the other hand Mayank is also in good touch for the last 3 years in IPL. He is a good pace and spin hitter as his strike rate suggests. He has an overall strike rate of 143 against pacers and 153 against spinners and PBKS would want him to play well.
In the 3rd position Bairstow is expected to come. He has a fairly good record in IPL. And their should not be question about Bairstow’s hitting abilities. Bairstow has a relatively conservative approach towards left arm spinners with a strike rate or 118. But leg spinners are easy pickings for him. As he scores with 165 strike rate against them. In the recent past Bairstow has an average of 145 against spinners and 32.25 average per dismissals.

Middle Order:
In the middle order Indian core youngsters like Shah Rukh Khan, Raj Bawa and power hitter Liam Livingstone will play. Livingstone has a strike rate of 158 in T20 format. He is also less dominant against left arm spinners. But overall PBKS will be hugely dependent on him. Livingstone has not played enough matches in IPL and his overall performance is also not up to the mark. This is a season where he can prove his abilities and do justice to his talent.
Shah Rukh Khan has got a good opportunity to justify the wholesome amount of 9 Cr spent on him.
And when it comes to purchase of Odean Smith, Kumble said “He has showcased his power, bowling skills and also his batting skills and we saw that on display against India here in the one-dayers, so we have been tracking the players for a while and we are very glad that someone like Odean as an all-rounder for us we have been able to secure”. Hope he does well.

The Spinners:
In the spin section Harpreet Brar and Rahul Chahar are there. Harpreet Brar is not extremely experienced in IPL. And we should not expect him to be a leading wicket taker of the season. But he is an economical bowler. In the middle overs he can decelerate the flow of runs of the opponents. And it is an important task. And as many right handed batters face problem in playing slow left arm orthodox bowlers, Brar may prove to be an obstacle for them.
On the other hand Rahul Chahar proved to be very good for the Mumbai Indians. Chahar is a wicket taking wrist spinner and he is expected to be economical as well. So both of them together may give PBKS good results in their respective sections.

The Pacers:
Let’s come to the pace section. If we follow Arshdeep Singh, we will find that he has improved himself in this league. Changing his bowling average from 36 to 19 and improving economy from 11 to 8 suggest why PBKS retained him this year. He is expected to deliver for the team this year too.
To make a team good a gun death bowler is inevitably needed. In that case Rabada is considered to be one of the greats. As of 2020 Rabada bowled with a baffling average of 9.6, strike rate of 6.8 and economy of 8.44 in the death overs. 2021 went a bit bad for Rabada. But he can make a great comeback in this season of IPL.

This is the analysis in nutshell about some important players of PBKS who are expected to make it to the playing XI. This is a very good and balanced side. They should do well in IPL in the next few years.
