---
layout: post
title: "INDIA vs. SOUTH AFRICA ODI SERIES"
author: ritam
categories: [Cricket]
image: assets/images/ind-sa.jpg
---

The Backdrop:
This South Africa tour was very important for India. People hoped, rather planted the notion in their brain that India would win the series and make a history of winning the first test series on the South African soil which was unconquered till date. But things didn’t go as per our expectations. After a historic win in Centurion India failed to capitalize the lead and went on to lose the consecutive two tests. The dream once again remained unachieved.
India had already won the ODI series convincingly in 2018. By defeating the Proteas by a margin of 4-1 in the series they grabbed their first ODI series win in South Africa under Virat Kohli’s leadership. But things were not same this time.
Earlier Kohli had resigned from T20I captaincy. And at the time of team selection for the SA tour he was removed from his ODI captaincy too. After the defeat in the test series Kohli left test captaincy too.
So a new captain with a team missing some major players like Rohit Sharma, Md Shami and Ravindra Jadeja started the ODI series.

Performance:
India lost all the 3 matches in the series. In the first match India got some early breakthroughs but things couldn’t convert the flow in their way as Bavuma and Van der Dussen scored centuries to take SA near 300. In reply Dhawan, Kohli and Shardul Thakur made half centuries but could not take India to the winning runs.
In the second match India batted first. Skipper Rahul and Dhawan provided India with a solid start. But after the fall of Dhawan’s wicket Kohli could not spend long in the crease as he got out for a 5 ball duck. Pant played his natural game and accelerated the momentum of the game. He fell 15 runs short of a well-deserved century. Rahul also made half century. And later on Shardul provided a good finish. But Proteas faced no difficulty in chasing the target of 288. Janneman Malan, de Kock played brilliant innings of 91 and 78 runs respectively. Bavuma, Markram and Dussen, having scored 30+ runs each, helped SA reach the target quite comfortably.
India had already lost the series. In Newlands the 3rd ODI started. De Kock and Dussen turned out to be the major run scorers for SA who were batting first.de Kock hit a century. A target of 287 was set for India to refrain themselves from getting whitewashed. Dhawan and Kohli scored 61 and 65 respectively to give some hope but with them going to pavilion the hope for India to win the match went down as middle order batsmen could not do great. But to everyone’s surprise Deepak Chahar kept the game alive scoring a dashing half century. When he got out for 54 off 34 balls, India were in a good position to win the match. But wickets kept on falling as tail enders were only out there. A very close match ended and SA won the match by 4 runs. SA packed the series 3-0.

The Middle Order Problem:
A middle order in batting lineup generally comprises of batters of 4,5,6,7 positions. In the ODI series the middle order of Indian batting lineup couldn’t perform extremely well specially compared to that of South Africa.
42,158,110. These are the total runs scored by Indian middle order batters in the 1st,2nd and 3rd ODI respectively. Expect 2nd ODI the numbers are not at all good whereas middle order of averaged extremely well in the first two ODIs. Middle order was a problem in the series. Another thing to be noted is that in the 7th position India played bowling allrounder i.e. Ashwin, Shardul Thakur and Deepak Chahar in the respective matches. Shardul and Deepak performed beyond expectations. Now the problem in this line up is that it is not properly balanced. The players in that certain position were shuffled in all the three matches. And we expect a batting all rounder in that position because not every day a bowling all rounder will perform well with the bat.
Shreyas Iyer faced problems with the short ball. It is also a concern for the player and the team.

The Bowlers:
In the previous SA tour spinners played a pivotal role behind the success of India. The “Kulcha” pair took 33 wickets with an astounding average of 15.125. And the pair maintained an average economy of 4.82. the stats clearly shows their contribution.
This time the things didn’t go that well. Indian bowlers as a whole failed to take wickets in middle overs which costed them the flow of runs.

The Job Ahead:
Overall India should learn from the mistakes. Role clarity of the players should be precise. And the team should be balanced. The next white-ball is around the corner. The team should do well in the series.
